Another command you can use to check the path that traffic is taking throughout your Layer 2 network
is 'show mac address-table'.
So for this example, we're going to check the path that traffic is taking from PC1 going to R1,
and you can see in the diagram that it should go from PC1 to Acc3, to CD1, to R1,
so let's verify that.
So I go into R1 and I do a show interface for gigEthernet0/1 there to find out the MAC address,
because I'm going to check the path traffic's taking from PC1 to that interface, with the IP address
10.10.10.02. In the example, I can see that
it ends with MAC address 2D02. I then go onto the first top switch, which is Acc3 and
then I do a 'show mac address-table', and I see the entry there for VLAN 1, for the MAC address ending in
2D02, which is that interface in R1
that the outgoing port is going to be fastEthernet0/24, going towards CD1, which is what
I expected.
I then go into the next hop of CD1, and I do a 'show mac address-table' there, and I can see that the MAC address
was learned on interface gigEthernet0/1.
So again, that was what I expected, going directly to R1.
Okay,
let's also check this in the lab for traffic going from PC2 to R1,
and you can see from the diagram, we expect the traffic to go from PC2 to Acc4, to CD2, to Acc3,
to CD1, and then to R1.
So first off, let's go onto R1 and check the MAC address. So I need to open up in Packet Tracer here,
I'll go to the command line,
and 'show interface gig0/1'. That's the interface with IP address 10.10.10.2 and
I can see that, yes, the MAC address ends into 2D02.
Then, I will go on to PC2
and open up a command prompt on here. I'll clear my ARP cache first, and then I'll ping
10.10.10.2 to generate some traffic so that the switches in the path will learn the MAC address.
Then looking at the topology diagram, PC2's first hop is Acc4, and I expect that the traffic will
go out interface fastEthernet0/24.
So let's go onto the Acc4 switch and do a 'show mac address-table' on here,
look for the entry for 2D02, and yes, the traffic is going out fastEthernet0/24,
and that will go to CD2 and I expect the traffic out CD2 to go out interface Fast0/21.
So, let's check that.
So a 'show mac address-table' on here, look for the entry to 2D02, and yes, it is going out interface
fastEthernet0/21. The next hop,
I know it's going to hit Acc3 because it's come out fastEthernet0/21 on CD2. On Acc3,
I expect it to be forwarded out fastEthernet0/24 to CD1.
So let's check that, on Acc3, if I can find the switch in here,
there we go.
Okay, so an Acc3, 'show mac address-table' and 2D02,
yes,
it is on fastEthernet0/24,
and finally, the last hop is going to be CD1.
It should be on interface gigEthernet0/1.
So let's go on to CD1 and a 'show mac address-table' on here,
and there is 2D02,
yes, it is going out interface gigEthernet0/1.
So that's how you can verify the Spanning Tree by mapping out your Root Ports, your Designated Ports, and
your alternate Blocking Ports,
and also how you can use the 'show mac address-table' command to verify that traffic will be going through
that path.
Now, if we have a look at the topology diagram again here, you maybe notice the problem in that traffic
from PC2 and that it was pinging all over the network.
It wasn't going through the most direct path.
Real-world networks were definitely going to want traffic to go along the shortest path to make things
as efficient as possible.
In the next lecture, we're going to cover how you do that by manipulating where the Root Bridge is.